[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Mars, the planet fourth
from the sun and known for its
conspicuous red color has
fascinated man for thousands
of years.
By the end of 2018, there
were eight active spacecraft
either orbiting or investigating
the surface of Mars.
There are also
private groups that
boasts they will be
building the first colony
on the surface of Mars.
It's a human obsession that
drives scientists, astronomers,
explorers, and
sci-fi writers mad.
But why Mars?
This passionate pursuit to
discover life on the red planet
may be fueled by something
deeper than curiosity.
It could be triggered
by an ancient memory.
If this is true, what is it
we are trying to understand
on the surface of Mars?
The Electric Universe theory
suggests that not only could
there have been
life on Mars, but it
is one of the only planets
that holds the most
evidence that 10,000 years ago,
an electrical encounter wreaked
havoc on our current
solar system.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
"National Geographic"
published an article titled
"Did Life on Earth
Come From Mars?"
In the article, two
scientists gather evidence
that Mars had certain elements
for early development of life
that Earth seemed
to be scarce of.
Their theory suggests
that a meteorite hit Mars
and that the debris
from that impact
made its way to Earth's
surface, carrying
these elements we needed.
This brings up two questions.
If Mars had these necessary
elements for life,
could that mean that life
existed on Mars already?
And also, could
this impact on Mars
have been an electrical
encounter with Earth,
and not a meteorite from space?
Electric Universe
unravels a riveting case
for those questions.
>> One of the big puzzles about
the Earth has been its oceans,
because the hydrogen and
oxygen that makes up the water
in the oceans should have
been, according to the standard
theory, blown into the outer
reaches of the solar system
during the early phase
of the sun's existence.
And that was the argument
for the formation of the gas
giants.
They were thought to be mostly
the gases that were blown out
from the inner solar system.
The answer that
they came up with
is that the Earth suffered
bombardment by comets.
And comets brought
water to the Earth
after its formation
and the other planets
that were in place.
This doesn't stand
up because now
that we've actually
looked at comets,
they don't have the
water that was expected.
And of course, the
Electric Universe
explains that too, because
the water is actually
formed electrically from
the minerals on the surface.
When we look closely
at comets, they've
shown they've got
rocky surfaces.
The simple answer is that
the atmosphere and the oceans
on the Earth were formed by
this continual misting down
of material being
lost from Saturn.
That would mean that Mars
also had the same environment.
That also indicates
that we should
expect that there was life
on Mars at that period,
and that even after
all that devastation,
perhaps someday we
may be able to detect
the fossils of lifeforms.
>> If Mars had the same
environment as Earth,
why did Mars end up a barren
red planet while Earth continued
to carry life?
>> The break up of the system
must have consisted of a series
of episodes, some of them
violent and destructive,
others more benign, which gave
any lifeforms a chance to try
and regroup and figure out what
they could do to avoid being
wiped out the next time.
And that also gives rise to
this idea of the recurrence
and predicting it's
going to happen again
because in that era, the
chances were pretty high.
Each time these
events occurred, there
would have been a change
in atmospheric content,
the amount of atmosphere,
and those kinds of things.
We know, for certain, that this
also occurred on the Earth.
On Mars being a smaller
body, the changes
would have been more dramatic.
And it's possible that if
there were people on Mars,
they would have had to
survive in a reduced
atmosphere, for instance,
find it difficult to breathe.
These are the kinds
of things that one
can speculate about
and try and form
a picture of what these
events must mean for living
creatures on their surfaces.
>> How is this explained using
the Electric Universe model?
>> Each of the
satellites of Saturn,
Mars and Earth in particular,
would have had to find
their new place in
the solar system.
Now, under the Newtonian
model, of course,
this would have been
impossible in the short time
frame we've been talking about,
10,000 to 12,000 years ago.
In fact, it would have
been impossible simply
because having introduced
chaos into the solar system,
there's no way of restoring
order, no simple way.
Some bodies would have been
flung out of the solar system,
others crashed into others
based on the standard thinking.
The Electric Universe
model says that the bodies
would avoid collisions.
And when they came
close, they would
exchange electric
charge, which would
change their mass,
their gravity,
and, therefore, their orbit.
So this is the
mechanism that spaced
all of the progeny
of proto-Saturn
at the various distances that we
find them in the solar system.
There's research to be done to
understand how this achieves
what is known as the Bode's
relationship between the orbits
of planets.
There are things going on in
the Electric Universe which
are not considered at
present, and that is there
are resonances.
There are resonances
within subatomic particles.
within atoms,
within biological
systems, within crystals,
at every scale.
And in the case of
the solar system,
there is a
gravitational resonance.
>> If this resonance between
planets caused massive damage
on a once Earth-like planet,
where can we find evidence
of that?
>> I think it's important to
visualize the towering size
of the planet Mars as it neared
the vicinity of the Earth.
It would have been many times
bigger than the current moon.
But as Mars moved
closer to the Earth,
you have to imagine
unbelievable pyrotechnics
in the sky, certainly a lot
of electromagnetic effects,
a lot of auroral effects.
>> Mars, at its closest, was
about 40 times the diameter
of the moon in the sky.
You can understand the
sheer fright and awe
of the ancient observers
and the concern
that the things that were
happening around them
were signals of the
end of the world.
It also explains the strange
motivation for ancients
to build huge rock
structures with rocks
that we'd have difficulty moving
with our modern equipment.
And some of them are
very rudimentary.
They appear mainly
to have shielded
from things falling from above.
And that fits, of course,
with all of the stories
of stones falling from heaven.
The meteorites that fell were
associated with lightning.
They're called lightning stones.
So the two, together,
came together,
the interplanetary lightning
and the falls of rocks,
and stone, and
dust from the sky.
And also, that fits with
the biblical accounts
of the plagues of
Egypt and so on.
>> If you have a situation where
Mars' meteorites are falling
on the Earth in
tremendous abundance,
it goes without saying that
there's a possibility that
Mars' microorganisms eventually
made their way to the Earth.
>> One of the features that
it was recently discovered,
once we'd learned what the
composition of Mars' atmosphere
is and what the
rocks were made from,
it was understood then that
some meteorites that have been
collected on Earth were
actually from Mars.
And not only that, that
recently arrived ones,
amongst that discovery, which
shows that there is still
debris from the Martian
sculpting arriving on Earth.
>> What would this sculpting
have looked like from
the surface of Earth?
>> Mars was the archetype
of the warrior hero.
The reason for that was that,
in this electrical environment,
it was traveling between Venus
and the Earth repeatedly.
So it would retreat
along the rotation axis
of all the objects
in this line, and it
would move up towards Venus.
Venus, at that time,
was discharging
in a greenish color,
interestingly enough,
but Mars' red color was obvious.
As it moved up towards
Venus, it would
sit within the
green ring of Venus
as if it was an eye
with a red pupil.
When it approached
the Earth, there
would be electrical
activity which
would make Mars
move away, back down
the column towards the Earth.
And as it approached the
Earth, it became gigantic.
And it was a threat
to the Earth.
Its appearance, as
it got close enough,
was such that
material being removed
from the surface of
Mars electrically would
descend towards the Earth.
And looking up at this
descending material,
it looked like a red dagger,
so that globally, you
will see images of Mars, and
you will also hear references
to the sword of Mars.
Well, what was
the sword of Mars?
It was this appendage of
material, dust and gases,
stretching towards the Earth,
towards the northern pole,
it seems.
>> According to the ancient
sources, a towering,
gigantic tornado or hurricane
descended from Mars with
disastrous effects.
This wasn't a
two-day phenomenon.
This was a phenomenon
that lasted for months,
if not years.
So it was remembered as
a tremendous hurricane
in the sky that circled around
as a giant corkscrewing-like
serpent and effected a disaster.
But at the same time,
that same entity
was looked upon as the
single leg of heaven and/or
as the world
pillar-like structure
that actually supported heaven.
In order for all those
different thematic patterns
to be associated with it, it
had to be a sustained phenomenon
to allow that many different
symbols to originate
in the first place,
which would be visualized
as a towering structure
spanning the circumpolar sky
above the Earth.
Virtually every
culture on the Earth
commemorated that mountain in
their monumental structures.
The Maya pyramids, for
example, are called mountains.
The pyramids of Egypt
certainly would fall into that.
The Babylonian
ziggurats were certainly
identified as a mountain.
And those mountains
were ascribed
the exact same characteristics
as the mountain in the sky.
So they did not distinguish
between the two entities.
That mountain on the Earth
was the mountain in heaven.
And probably the
best example of that
is the ziggurats in Mesopotamia.
They typically included a
bull's-like horn on the top
of the ziggurat.
And they compared that to
the shining horns in heaven.
We all are familiar with those
ancient pictographs of the sun
that we've been talking about.
They will always
have the sun setting
within a crescent-like horn.
And so when that
world mountain is
putting a single set
of horns on its apex,
it is literally
commemorating the horns
that they saw in the sky,
the twin-peaked mountain.
>> How did humans
incorporate this red planet
into their understanding
of the world?
>> Well, Mars plays a prominent
role in all ancient religions
because, of course, ancient
man's life revolved around war,
hunting and war.
Obviously, Mars was
the warrior planet.
When man marched
off to war, they
emulated the behavior
of the planet Mars.
So all of your
great warrior gods,
in virtually every
culture, they will always
be identified with
the planet Mars.
And that isn't us
identifying it.
Those are the
peoples themselves.
They will say Horus
was the planet Mars.
That's what the New
Kingdom texts say.
The Greek Heracles
was identified
with the planet Mars.
Mars featured prominently
in ancient cultures
also as the king of the gods.
And so if you take the
Egyptian religion, for example,
already in the
"Pyramid Texts," Horus
is represented as a star,
a dominant star in the sky.
And he is specifically
called the king of the gods.
So the Egyptian pharaohs, each
one of them took a Horus name.
So they called themselves
Horus so and so.
So they were emulating
the king of the gods.
They were emulating the
planet Mars in their behavior.
In New Kingdom
text when astronomy
starts to become
developed, they identify
Horus with the red
planet, the planet Mars.
It's just a matter
of historical record
that the Egyptian kings
boasted about being like Horus.
They wanted to model
their behavior on Horus.
>> Mars was the central
axis of this cosmic wheel
because the radiating
streams from Venus, at times,
looked like the
spokes of a wheel.
And Mars would form the hub.
Even the imagery that you see
in the shields of warriors
would have the embossed hub
in the center of the shield
and the radiating streamers.
In other words, it was a
re-imaging of that ancient sky.
>> Mars is certainly the
most active player in ancient
mythology together with Venus.
That's not only because it
was closest to the Earth,
but because it was
bobbing up and down
the polar configuration.
And so it was involved
in a lot of skirmishes
with the other planets.
Again, it's famous for
being a shape-shifter.
And so it takes on a bunch
of different appearances
over the course of time
and the history associated
with the polar configuration.
So the most familiar story
involves the planet Mars
as the lover of
the planet Venus.
And we understand that as
representing, or symbolizing,
the planet Mars in
conjunction with Venus.
And so Venus is the
larger object in the sky.
Mars appears to
penetrate that object
and sits within its middle.
And that was the
grand conjunction.
For example, in North
America, the Skidi Pawnee
had a star-based religion.
Their creation myth said
that creation resulted
from the planet Mars having
a sexual relationship
with the planet Venus,
and that all life
stemmed from that sexual act.
That story, as we
understand it, is
virtually identical
to the story of Inanna
being involved with the sacred
marriage with Dumuzi or Adonis,
the planet Mars in
ancient Samaria.
And it's also the same
story as Aphrodite,
the planet Venus being involved
with Aries in Greek myth.
At the same time, myths
all around the world
will always describe the planet
Mars as the warrior planet.
>> During these encounters
with Mars when it came down
the polar column
towards the Earth,
the first effect would be
discharges that were what they
call dark mode.
So you would have
these tornadoes.
But instead of just extending
out into the upper atmosphere,
they extended into space and
stretched towards the Earth.
So the red, dusty
tongue would have
been dust raised from
the red surface of Mars.
As the discharge increased in
strength, as Mars got closer,
there would also be
electrical activity.
And it would then begin to
create damage on the Earth
as well.
So this damaging sword,
it all fits together
with this warrior image of Mars.
>> If this is true, could there
be more evidence on the surface
of Mars of such a battle?
>> The features on Mars'
surface were unexpected when
the Mariner
spacecraft flew past.
Unfortunately, I
think the first time,
it went when there was
one of these dust storms
and the surface was obscured.
But Mount Olympus,
the largest mountain
amongst the solar plants in
the solar system, was seen.
And that was a puzzle.
When the clouds cleared,
the gigantic valley
on Mars, the Valles
Marineris, became evident.
And that was a surprise,
too, by its sheer size
and the scale of the canyons.
At its deepest points, if you
were to stand on the edge--
and imagine you're doing
this at the Grand Canyon,
which at its deepest
is 1.6 kilometers--
on Mars, the Valles
Marineris, if you
were to peer over
the edge, you'd
be looking down 9 kilometers.
It would be like being in
a high-flying aircraft.
The major channels
of that canyon
stretch a third of the
way around the planet.
And the material that's
missing from that canyon
is equivalent to several million
cubic kilometers of rock.
The material that was
shot into space from Mars,
some would go into orbit.
The moons of Mars are probably
material that stayed in orbit.
The others would be
transferred to the body
that it was exchanging the
electrical discharges to.
And the rest would be
meteorites, cometary material,
and asteroids.
A lot of Mars, I think, is
actually in the asteroid belt.
And we know that
some asteroids are
characterized by their
redness, the same as Mars.
So it's easy to predict
that once we begin
to test the surfaces
of these objects,
and that's beginning
now in the space age,
we will see resemblances
to the material from Mars.
The asteroid belt, I
think, is the scene
of the breakup of
Mars from that system.
And that asteroid
belt, of course,
exists between Mars'
present orbit and Jupiter.
The astronomer Tom Van
Flandern calculated the orbits
of the asteroids, and also
of the short-period comets,
and found that if
you retro calculate
some thousands of
years, they appear
to have all had a fairly
common origin, which
is exactly what you would
expect under these conditions.
And this is an important
way of gaining evidence
for this particular explanation.
It's easy to understand the
sheer volume of the material
that has formed these objects--
comets, and asteroids,
and meteorites--
by the very fact
that there were
about four kilometers
of the northern hemisphere
of Mars removed during all
of this electrical activity.
And the different
type of scarring
on the southern
hemisphere are all
indicative of electrical
activity on a vast scale.
>> How could this scarring have
affected a once lush planet?
>> Mars suffered terribly.
Its atmosphere was
practically stripped off,
a huge part of its
surface was stripped off.
And the characteristics
of electrical scars
are seen everywhere
on that planet,
both in Olympus Mons, which
is an anode-type surface
discharge where the
material is raised
from the surface like a blister,
and that whole area has all
of the features of what's
called a fulgurite scar, which
lightning creates when it
hits a lightning arrester.
And then nearby is
this giant canyon
of Valles Marineris, which is
more of a cathode-type scar.
And even the features along
the rims of that giant gash,
the side canyons fulfill
all of the characteristics
of an electric discharge with
coronal right angle discharges
from the main channel.
The severity of the
discharge to Mars,
you can't underestimate
it, because that pattern
of the Grand Canyon doesn't
show the characteristics
of the one on Mars.
The one on Mars has the shape
of a barred spiral galaxy.
Spiral galaxies are
the most gigantic form
of the electric discharge
in the universe.
So Mars culped an
electrical blast
which was sufficient to imprint
the image of a spiral galaxy
on its surface.
>> Could this imprint on Mars
mark the biggest evidence
for proof that we live
in an Electric Universe?
If so, could the moons
of Mars add to the story?
>> The evidence for the
electrical birth of the moons
of Mars is clearly written
across the face of Phobos,
the largest Martian moon.
It has one giant crater at
one end, Stickney crater.
And radiating from that are all
of these electrical channels
traveling to the other
end of the small moon.
This is characteristic
of an object
that's caught up in a
discharge between it
and two other objects.
And you'll get cratering.
And then you get
the electric current
flowing around the body
towards the other end.
You see it also in other
moons in the solar system.
Their birth process
involved being caught up
in the discharge channel.
And so one side has
chaos, craters, and so on.
And then you see these
channels going around
to the other side in a similar
kind of odd chaotic region
on the other side.
Jupiter's moon Europa
has these features.
In the case of Phobos, there
is no good explanation.
It's more a case
of just making up
a story about Stickney crater,
because any physical impact
to create that crater should
have shattered the moon.
But of course, an
electric discharge
is machining it very
accurately with no debris left,
so you have a very clean crater.
And all of these
electrical channels
from the rim hitting
around the moon,
it was formed in an
electrical event.
And the obvious source of
the material for that moon
is Mars itself.
>> Could the red color
of Mars also play a part
in the electrically
damaged planet?
>> The red color of Mars is
due to the presence of an iron
oxide mineral called hematite.
One of the puzzles,
when the first landings
were successful on
Mars, was the discovery
of vast fields of blueberries.
They're little
droplets of hematite
that had been modified,
in some fashion,
from just the rock material.
One of our people in
the Thunderbolts group
did experiments in
his home laboratory
taking hematite with
electric discharges.
And he produced the blueberries.
So those strewn fields
of countless numbers
of these tiny
Martian blue spheres
can be accounted for by
their electrical production
in the sculpting of
the surface of Mars.
It's notable that when
the first landers switched
on their cameras on
the surface of Mars,
that when they
looked around, it was
strewn with broken
rocks, quite sharp rocks,
so they hadn't been sitting
around for billions of years.
It's exactly what
you would expect
from having vast amounts of
material lofted upwards, a lot
of it into space,
some of it into orbit,
and others just falling
back all around the planet
at different distances.
So those strewn
fields of sharp rocks
easily explained based
on this Electric Universe
reconstruction.
>> Could the evidence from
mythology and science prove
that Mars was once an Earth-like
planet with life that was
destroyed heavily in electrical
encounters with Venus
and Earth?
If this is true, could
our pursuit as earthlings
be to uncover a lost
civilization that
disappeared 10,000 years
ago in our solar system?
>> This is an aspect of the
Electric Universe that's very
important to understand and that
is the connectedness of things.
The present science tends to
separate things, isolate them,
and look at the vast
distances and the time spans
that it would take for
light or even travel
between these objects.
And we feel isolated on our
beautiful blue planet, which
is insignificant in
the vastness of space,
orbiting and insignificant
star in the galaxy.
And it gives a sense of
isolation and meaninglessness
to our existence.
The Electric Universe
says quite the opposite,
that we are connected to the
rest of the universe in ways
that we have yet to discover.
Quantum physics knows
about it because they
call it entanglement and
spooky action at a distance.
They are limited because they
cannot understand how a signal
can transfer from one thing to
another faster than the speed
of light.
And yet the evidence is
right before our eyes.
The Earth orbits the
sun where the sun
is at this instant, not
where we see it in the sky
8 and 1/2 minutes later.
And the same goes
for all the planets.
They know where the sun is, and
the sun knows where they are.
And we would not have a
clockwork solar system
if it was otherwise.
It kind of gives some
idea that the ancients
knew that the planets influenced
us, and severely at times
when everything was going
crazy in the solar system.
The position of all the bodies
in the solar system known
to a living organism at
the instant that something
happens to that organism.
>> If the solar
configuration is true,
how does our electric sun
fit into the living organism?
Up next, the sun and
its electric power
that feeds the solar system.
[MUSIC PLAYING]